Sequel.
>> S-Q-L.
>> Sequel.
>> Sequél.
>> Squul.
>> Clearly, nobody seems to agree
how to pronounce the acronym for
the database language you
are going to learn in this course.
The most common pronunciations
are either SQL or Sequel,
but there is truly no agreement about
which pronunciation is more accepted.
A blogger named Patrick Gillespie
amusingly emailed a man named
Don Chamberlin to ask about the official
pronunciation of the language's name.
Don Chamberlin co authored SQL or sequel
with Raymond Boyce at IBM in the 1970s.
So if anybody should know what
the language is called, it's Don.
Don responded with, Hi Pat.
Since the language was originally named
Sequel, many people continued to pronounce
the name that way after it
was shortened to S-Q-L.
Both pronunciations are widely used and
recognized.
As for which is more official, I guess
the authority would be the ISO standard,
which is spelled and
presumably pronounced SQL.
Thanks for your interest, Don Chamberlin.
So even the co author of the language
can't say with confidence how the name of
the language is pronounced.
The best he can say is that
it's presumably pronounced,
not definitely pronounced or
even usually pronounced SQL.
To make things more confusion
some of the most popular
database systems in
the world such as Oracle
say explicitly in their documentation that
the language is pronounced See-Quill.
Others, such as MySQL say explicitly
that their name is My Ess-Cue-Ell.
So I wasn't exaggerating when I said
there is no agreement about how to
pronounce the name of the language.
That means you can use whichever
pronunciation you like better.
Personally I like using
both pronunciations,
sometimes even in the same sentence.
I will go back and forth between the two
pronunciations throughout the course.
So why should we care about SQL or Sequel?
Companies have to keep
track of a lot of data, and
the only practical way to do that is to
store the data is some type of database.
If you are becoming a data analyst for
the business world, somehow you are going
to have to figure out how to get data
out of these databases in order
to do any kind of analysis.
This course is designed to
help you learn how to do that.
In many technology driven companies,
the only way to retrieve data from a
database is to write your own SQL queries,
which are structured lines of
computer code that extract data.
In other larger and more traditional
companies there are people in the company
who could extract the data for you, but
you have to put in a formal request for
them to write and execute and query.
And it could take days or weeks for them
to fill your request especially if many
other people are asking for queries too.
For this reason, companies are very
eager to hire analysts who can not only
analyze data but who know how to
get the data in the first place.
As some evidence of this,
academic researchers of
the Teradata University Network
were in a study to determine the state
of business intelligence and analytics.
They asked over 400 recruiters
from technical companies to
answer the question.
When I recruit for business intelligence,
business analyst roles,
it is important that the students have
the following coursework or knowledge.
Then the recruiters had to rank
a bunch of possible responses.
The number 2 answer companies gave,
was SQL and Query skills.
The number 3 answer companies
gave was Basic Analytics.
Therefore, according to this survey, the
ability to pull data out of a database is
even more important than analytical skills
for getting a business analyst job.
We are dedicating an entire course
in the specialization to helping you
acquire this ability.
By the way, if you're curious about what
the number 1 response companies gave in
the survey was, it was very interestingly,
Communication Skills.
That's why we dedicated course three of
this specialization to Data Visualization
and Communication.
I mentioned earlier that SQL is
the language used to retriever data from
specific types of databases
called relational databases.
Relational databases
are the gold standard for
data bases that store highly organized and
structured business data.
Almost every single company in the world
has at least one relational database.
There are also new classes of
databases specifically designed for
data that are collected in an extremely
fast rate, such as GPS or biosensory data,
or unstructured data that does not fit
well into highly prescribed formats,
such as tweets or texts.
However, although these databases
are certainly likely to gain
popularity in the future,
right now they only represent a very
small fraction of the database market.
As you can see from this graph produced
by the International Data Corporation,
a global market intelligence firm, annual
sales from the current database market
are over $40 billion, and are expected to
top $50 billion in the next few years.
The green in the bars on this chart
illustrates that almost all of these
billions of dollars are spent on
relational database technologies.
Therefore, although there are definitely
exciting things to learn and
know about other databases,
we chose to focus on how to manage
big corporate data using relational
databases in this specialization.
The second part of the title
of this course refers to MySQL
which is a particular brand or
platform of relational database.
There are many relational database
platforms including Oracle, Microsoft,
SQL Server, DB2, SQLite,
Microsoft Access, and PostgreSQL.
We chose to focus on MySQL.
To help explain why,
I'd like to introduce you to Ryan Luecke,
senior software engineer at Box.
>> Hi, my name is Ryan Luecke and
I work at Box as a senior
software engineer on our caching
infrastructure team, which is closely
related to our database engineering team.
Box is an online file sharing and
collaboration service for businesses.
Box lets multiple people
across the country or
across the world work on
documents at the same time and
store them in a safe place
that is accessible to anyone.
A good reason to highlight Box in this
course is that Box's entire interface
is based on relational database concepts.
Every time you store a new document
in a folder in your Box account,
it's like a new row in a table.
Every time you add a new collaborator
to a document it's like adding
a new relationship between tables.
So in Ryan's words,
>> Really, then what Box is, is a very
pretty interface to get to all of
the underlying database operations.
>> This means that people who work at Box
have a really deep understanding of what
relational databases do,
because their entire product
is based on making sure the relational
database works quickly and perfectly.
And importantly for this course,
Box uses MySQL as its primary database.
Here is Ryan's explanation for
their choice.
>> Choosing a relational
database is a difficult task.
There are a lot of
relational databases and
non-relational databases to choose from.
And one reason we chose
MySQL was it's reliable,
it's mature, it's open source,
and well understood.
There's a lot of industry and
community around MySQL.
There are conferences around MySQL,
and a lot of tools for it.
And it also meets our relational needs, so
it's able to do what we need it to do to
store data for millions of users,
and billions of pieces of content.
>> But box is by no means the only
well known company to use MySQL.
Here are some other companies that
rely heavily on MySQL databases.
>> So Facebook uses MySQL,
YouTube within Google.
Yelp uses MySQL, Dropbox.
GitHub which stores a lot
of developer files and
projects, LinkedIn, Etsy online store,
Send grid, Twitter, Booking.com, Square,
Pintrest, Yahoo, and lots of others.
>> Those are a lot of big name companies.
Given that MySQL is open source, free for
anybody to use, well understood, and
used by so
many companies you might want to work for,
we thought it was an important database
with which to give you some experience.
Each database system does use its
own slightly different version of
SQL language, so
you will have to be prepared to look for
the differences if you start working
with another type of database.
Don't worry, languages are very similar.
Writing SQL queries is kind
of like driving a car.
Every time you use a different car, you
might have to spend some time looking for
where the buttons and
adjustment knobs are.
But if you know how to drive one car,
you know how to drive all of them,
as long as they have the same
transmission type, that is.
Same thing with different
relational database systems.
Once you know how to use SQL
to interact with one database,
you know how to use SQL to interact
with all relational databases.
You are going to get
a sense of how small or
large the differences in SQL languages are
in this course because we decided to give
you access to another type of relational
database in addition to a MySQL database.
The second relational database
it a Teradata database.
We chose Teradata because it is the leader
in what is called data warehousing.
A data warehouse is a copy of
historical and current company data
that is structured explicitly for
querying and analytical reporting.
Their warehouses are commonly used for
things like company dashboards that allow
executives to make decisions based on
real time data and graphs that show how
those data relate to trends from the past.
Well known companies which store petabytes
of data in Teradata bases include Walmart,
Sam's Club, Verizon, AT&T,
Bank of America, and Apple.
Having experience with both a MySQL and a
Teradata database will give you confidence
that you can navigate
different database systems and
will provide you with a strong competitive
edge in the data analytics marketplace.
Here's what we will cover
in the next few weeks.
By the end of this course, you will
be able to describe the structure of
relational databases, interpret and
create entity relationship diagrams and
relational schemas that describe
the contents of specific databases.
Write queries that retrieve and
sort data that meet specific criteria, and
retrieve such data from MySQL and
Teradata databases that contain
over one million rows of data.
Execute practices that limit the impact
of your queries on other coworkers.
Summarize rows of data using
aggregate function and
segment aggregations according
to specified variables.
Combine and manipulate data from
multiple tables, across a database.
Retrieve records and
compute calculations that are dependent
on dynamic data features.
And translate data analysis
questions into SQL queries.
Now long from now you will have
a highly coveted skill set
that will make you very attractive
to data analyst recruiters.
You will also have a powerful set
of tools to help you provide real
tangible value to your business.
I'm very excited to learn about
all the doors that will open for
you as you embrace this important feature
of the data driven business world.
It's going to be a fun ride.